Welcome back.
How was it.
Did you get it.
Was it a tough question.
Don't get too disappointed if you weren't able to get the answer these questions are meant to be tough
to stretch your mind.
If they were too simple then you wouldn't be learning anything.
Let's start off with the naive approach that is the approach that first comes to mind.
For me the very first one is going to be a nested for loop.
Let's have a function.
I'm going to call it first
recurring character it's going to receive an input.
And because we've already talked about it I'm not going to do any input validation.
We can just assume that we're always going to get some sort of a numbered array in here.
I'm going to loop again and oh boy I've done this so many times by now.
I hope you're getting sick and tired of just looping through arrays but hey now at least we are masters
of loops
I plus plus.
So in here in the first loop we're gonna grab the first item in the array and let's just call this function.
So we have it here.
Nice and easy and gives us a nice visual so I'm going to loop through the first item.
Then the fifth or the second the third the fourth and keeps going keeps going.
I want to grab this item and then do another loop and check two versus five two versus one two versus
two and then say ah that's the one.
If it doesn't find anything it's going to go to the next five and then compare 5 to 1 1 2 2 2 2 3 and
so on so once again I'm just going to copy and paste this time because we have done a lot of for loops
and simply change the variable to be J.
We're going to start at 1 because we don't want to compare 2 to 2.
We want to compare 2 2 5.
To start off so we're just skipping a loop which will help us get going to say J here and J plus plus.
Now some of you may have been caught here because if we have it the way it is right now and you console
log this loop you'll see that it won't work properly because every time this shifts the outer for loop
shifts from let's say 0 to next 1 the one index J is going to be reset to 1.
So 5 is going to get compared to 5 and the function is going to assume a 5 as the reoccurring character
so a little trick here is to do pi plus 1.
That is we always go one to the right of where highest the first index is.
So if we're looping looping and we're at here the sub loop the nested loop is going to look at I plus
1.
So it's going to compare 2 to 3 2 to 5 2 2 I because well we've already compared to 2 2 5 2 1 5 2 2
1 2 and previous loops.
All right.
We've done that in here.
We can simply do an if statement saying input high.
Does that equal input.
J does 2 equals to 5 does 2 equal to 1.
Does 2 equal to 2.
If that equals then just simply return input
otherwise if we do all this work and nothing happens we can just return
undefined.
Let's see if that works.
I'm going to run it and I get two awesome what if I change this to one.
If I run this I get one.
Perfect.
What if I do just a single item in an array.
I get undefined if I do an empty array.
I get undefined.
That's good.
What if I do 1 1 or 1 1 I get 1.
That's great.
If I do want to I get undefined.
Awesome.
This looks to be working.
Nice and simple.
But as you can see here we're not being very efficient.
We have nested loops which should trigger.
Oh this is.
Oh of and squared
and although technically we're actually always looping a little bit more efficient because of AI plus
I we're not looping twice over the entire array in the end.
When you remove the constants and simplify things it's still going to be 0 events squared.
So how can we solve this using hash tables.
Well let's create a new function we'll call this function by the same name this time number 2 Version
2 it's going to receive an input
and let's change our test case to have the same thing.
Like we did previously what can we do here.
Well let's use a hash table or an object to do something interesting that is to add these all these
as we iterate one by one so loop through all the items add them to a hash table.
And while we're doing that we can check to see if the property already exists or the key already exists
we add to to the hash table then five to the hash table then 1 to the hash table.
And when we tried to add two we can trigger a warning saying we already have two as the key so using
that logic.
Let's see how we can implement it.
I'm going to create a map.
We'll just call it a hash map for now because the keys are going to be unique.
It's not going to let any duplicate keys and we can simply do our loops
and in this loop all we're going to do is say if map and we can check in this map if it's empty.
Now the first check in here.
I want to say if the proper or if the key already exists I want to just return the item.
Because we don't need to do any more work as soon as we find a key that already exists in our hash table.
Stop all the looping and just to return.
In this case we want to return to.
So at index 0 1 2 3 it's going to return and say 2 because well this key already exists.
So the way we do that in the If check is to simply say if input I because remember this is going to
equal to 2 when we look through it if that exists then return otherwise we will just add it to our map.
So input by is going to equal and value can be anything.
We'll just leave it at I.
Which is the index.
So two is going to equal 0 5 is going to equal 1.
One is going to have to let's just console lock here to see what is happening but I want to also return
undefined at the end.
In case none of this happens in case there is no match so at the end of the for loop we'll just console
dot log map and see what we have.
I'm going to run and I get 5 huh.
And there's no log what just happened here.
Well if we console log appearance dead and take a look at what this is giving us
and run I get undefined undefined undefined zero undefined.
1 What does that mean.
Well remember we're looping through here and we're saying hey does to exist does input 0 which is to
exist as a key.
So it's simply saying map dot to does it exist.
And because that doesn't exist we get on defined and it's going to go to next hey does 5 exist.
No it doesn't.
Hey does one exist.
Hate does to exist.
And as soon as it checks to again
to it's going to say Oh I already have it.
It's at index of 0.
So this is working however because when this gets to zero the way javascript works it puts zero here
but in an if statement.
Zero is what we call false C in JavaScript and that has to do with type caution in JavaScript something
that a lot of people get annoyed about with the language.
So what we would need to do is to make sure that we we specified that we want this to not equal on define.
So as soon as it doesn't equal undefined I want you to return this item now.
If we run this we get to which is great.
If we console DOT Blog the map and run this let's add at the bottom here.
So we see the actual iteration that's happening we see that it adds to an index of zero then to an index
of 0 and 5 index of 1.
So on and so forth until it stops after the third loop because it encounters 2 again it's going to check
and say 0 2 already exists.
Just return it.
How cool is that.
We just made this entire thing with just one loop that is way faster than our first version.
Using hash tables.
How cool is that.
For me doing things like this and seeing the power of how learning about bingo and hash tables has improved
our coding ability just gets me really really excited and I hope this gets you excited as well.
We made this function have a time complexity of 0 event we've improved it with one downside.
We've increased the memory the space complexity by 0 then because we're creating a new object in this
function that needs to keep track of all the items in the array and in the worst case when there is
no match it's going to go through the entire item list of the array and hold that information in the
map.
So we're also going to have unlike this version where we didn't create any space complexity.
We just had space complexity of 0 of 1.
We now have a little bit more but in turn we have a faster function.
Very very cool.
Now to finish off I want to give you one last challenge you see looking at these two implementations
what happens if we have something like this.
What do you think.
The first recurring character is if I run this I get 5 because while 5 occurs sooner than 2 2 because
of the way we implemented the second function.
However if I go to the first version of our function and run this I get to hmm.
Why is that.
Well if we go to the very first part of our function we see that the way we are doing things is we are
going one by one in a different way.
We're saying grab two and then compare two with 5 then 5 then 2 and 3 then 5 then 1 and 2 4 and then
move over to 5 then 5 and 5 and 2 and so on and so forth.
And because of the way we have that implemented it's going to detect 2 and 2 because the outer loop
has an index of 0 and has 2 as it's going through the loop before it compares 5 with 5 vs. our second
version with a hash table where we had all these items and we were able to compare them once we grabbed
all of them and that's another powerful thing when you think about arrays and hash tables and how you're
able to compare things and based on what the interviewer asked you might have a wrong answer maybe they
want you to detect 5 and 5 before you detect 2 and 2 so my bonus question to you if you have time and
a bit of a challenge is to convert this function if you want into something that matches the answer
to this.
That is to detect 5 and 5.
How would you go about doing that.
You're most likely going to have to do something interesting here.
So good luck with that.
Talk to other people on discord in our community and see if you can figure it out and I'll post some
creative solutions to that problem as students submit them to see how other people have implemented
this but for now I think we deserve a break.
I'll see in the next one by.